So I'll already set up my template here to have the confirm button, it didn't add any logic though
but I want to start with the is the user allowed to visit a certain route task first.
Now we have three different places where we can set up is a user are allowed to enter a route check
and one place where we may set up the is he allowed to leave check.
Now I want to start with is he allowed to enter check and the first place to set this up is here in
the main.js file, here where we set up the router,
we can use our router which we configured here before we assigned it to our instance to access it and set
up the beforeEach method here.
Now beforeEach means execute this before each routing action or before every routing action which may
occur, here this expects to get the function as an argument where we have the route we want to navigate to. the
route where we are coming from and next which is a callback we can execute to let the request continue
its journey.
So basically this beforeEach function, this argument we're passing here gets executed on each routing
action,
so you may use this for only very generic checks and you should be aware that it gets executed all the
time,
so I can simply log global beforeEach so that we can see that here or that we reached this point. Important,
you have to execute next to allow the routing action to continue,
if you don't do that, it's assumed that it's not allowed to continue and it will exit and will not go
to the route or to the page you want it to go to.
Alternatively you could pass next false to abort the current operation and stay on the page you were
at or you can also pass either a path or the same object you already know from router links and from
this router push method,
so an object where you define the path you want to navigate to,
so you can also issue a redirection here with that.
So these are the three options, pass nothing
it continues its journey and will finally load
the page at some point of time, pass false it will abort, pass either a path or an object defining
that path including params and so on to redirect,
these are the three options.
So here I will just let the request continue its journey
but what we can already see, if I open the console and I load this, we see global beforeEach was executed
there,
if I click go to home, we see here it was executed,
if I click user, here it was executed,
if I click on a single user, it was executed and so on.
So this really gets executed on each routing action, global beforeEach set up here directly on the
global router which we passed to a root vue instance.
Now this is something you might use all the time, sometimes you only want to protect certain routes,
that is the more common use case I'd say.
So let's say we want to protect our user detail route here, this one, then we can also add the before enter
property here which now also is a function which you could also store in another file and simply import but I'll
write it here
and this has the same arguments as the other function had in this global function, to, from and next.
And then it works exactly in the same way,
here I say inside route
set up to see where this was executed,
and then again we can call next like this to let it continue with false to abort or with a different
path to navigate to that path, just like on the global function
but now directly limited to this route.
And we can see this, if I clear my console, load here we see global beforeEach and inside route set up
because I am on the user detail route
but if I click on go to home, we only see global beforeEach.
The same is true for the user page,
only if I select the individual user and hence go to the user detail page
so I see inside route set up.
So this is the next step of granularity, here
we check it on the route level.
Now the last place where you can implement it is directly in the component you're navigating to, so
user detail in this case. You would for this go to your route instance and there, you get
or your component I should say
and there you get two new methods available,
one is for the other navigation guard
we're going to have a look at next
and the other one is for this we used before in two different places, beforeRouteEnter would be the
name of the method you want to execute here,
this is like a lifecycle Hook and now implemented by the vue router
and here again with to, from,
and next.
And if we call next, we finally load this component and if we don't call it, we can still abort, we
can still navigate away,
that component doesn't get loaded
and this is key to understand and I want to really highlight this. As long as you don't call next here,
this component is not loaded,
this also means that in this lifecycle hook, you can't access your vue instance, you can't access your
data
so this link to access this property here
will not to work because this component hasn't been created yet. This is kind of a special case here,
we're in this file but this object hasn't been fully initialized so we may not access it here
and that's key to keep in mind. If you absolutely need to access it, you can pass a callback to the next
function here,
this is a special case where you pass your vue model, so this component instance to a function and
in there, you may now access link like this.
So this is now a place where you do have access to your component because since it's inside the next
function, it's simply a callback,
we pass it as an argument here
keep that in mind, which is executed once this component has been loaded
but this also means that at this point of time, the component has been created.
So if you really want to check if this component should be created before creating it, well then you have to do
it outside of the next callback
and there, you don't have access to the component data which I think makes sense because it isn't there
yet.
So here we could simply check if the user is authenticated,
so for example access some other files, some global service where you store this or whatever you like,
check if the user is authenticated,
so here if true to always allow navigation and if that is the case, I execute next
and if this is not the case, well then we may simply call next false to abort, now which will not get
executed here because it's always true
but you could check whatever you wanted to check here. Actually, let's show this, if it's false and I
reload this page, you see it doesn't get loaded,
I'm getting stuck.
So if I'm on my user page and click on user one, I'm not getting there because I failed to pass this
test here which is always false,
so let me switch to true and if we now reload this page, now it works again because now we are allowed
to continue.
So this is how we can check if a user is allowed to visit a certain page,
we can check it in three different places depending on which access we need and how granular it should
be.
Important to know or to keep in mind, in all three places you don't have access to the component you're
passing it to,
you only have access to the route you are coming from to
and the route you are going to and then you have this callback function which you need to execute to either
abort or redirect or let the request continue its journey.